High in this video we're going to look at unpacking.
So first I want to make a quick side note on topples.
So this is a top.
All right.
We have seen those before but what defines a top all in Python is not the parentheses it's the comma.
So one comma to come at three without the parentheses is also a topical.
In fact the top the parentheses are just used to make the top all clear.
It's really more something to clarify saying hey this is a topple but the parentheses don't create the
top or the comma is what indicates that something is a top now to create a topple over a single element.
You might think that if you know with the parentheses while you would write parentheses one but of course
parentheses don't create a topple.
So what in fact happens is that this is not a tough ball and you should just get an integer back.
It's just like having you know in expression one plus zero inside parentheses that's going to return
a one that's not going to return a table which is a good thing right because you wouldn't be able to
use your parentheses to do he ought to group either arithmetic expressions or to group boolean expressions.
So instead we have to write one comma and that will create a topple.
And if you want you can keep the parentheses but you still have to add the comma.
That's what indicates the top hole.
Now the only exception is when you're trying to create an empty topple.
In that case you can certainly use an empty set of parentheses.
You wouldn't have something like that in an arithmetic expression or a boolean expression.
So that's OK.
It's safe to use it that way.
So Python will allow it and will recognize that this is an empty table.
But if you prefer you can just use the table constructor instead.
So up to you how you want to do it all right.
So packed values.
First let's take a look at you know we talk about unpacking.
So what do we mean by packed values.
Well-packed values refers to values that are bundled together in some way.
Right.
It's kind of a very vague definition.
So tuples and lists are obvious there.
We know they've got a number of bundled values.
This table has three values in it.
This list has three values in it.
Strings are considered packed values too like the string here has individual characters P white T H
O N.
So they bundled together sets and dictionaries are obviously also packed values like a set which contains
those three elements or a dictionary that contains those three key value pairs so in fact any iterable
is considered a pact.
So really when we talk about back to values we mean and iterable and we would talk about unpacking packed
values we really mean unpacking iterable.
So how do we go about doing that and what does it mean to unpack while unpacking is the act of splitting
packed values into individual variables contained in a little topple.
So in other words you create a top or a list that contains variable names and then you take an iterable
and you unpack the iterable into those variable names.
So for example if we have a comma become a C equals this list one comma to common three.
Now remember this left hand side is just a topple with three values.
And the right hand side is a list with three values.
So there's three elements in the list.
So we need three variables to unpack because we're going to then take this and put that into the first
element of the top all right.
So this is a table which has three variables a b and c so a will be one B will be 2 and C will be 3.
Now that was the unpacking happens by taking the positions of each one's relatively on each on the left
hand side on the right hand side.
So the element that position one on the left will take on the value of the element that position 1 on
the right and so on.
So it's a positional assignment.
Does that remind you of how arguments were passed to functions and how they were assigned to parameters
in the function.
Yeah right.
That's exactly what's happening.
We're really Arwin with when we're calling a function and we pass arguments to the function.
It is then unpacking that topple into the parameters that are defined for the function.
That's exactly what's happening.
All right so how about unpacking other intervals.
Well we can unpack a table into another table so we can unpacked 10:20 helo into a b and c.
Remember that this is actually a table containing three values.
And of course the left hand side is also a table containing three values.
And so we'll end up with Akos 10 Beagle's 20 and sequel's Hello we can also unpack the string a string
as an iterable so x y z.
Well that's going to get unpacked and aid will be X B will b y and C will be Z again.
This relative positioning.
Now what this means by the way is that instead of writing equals 10 and Beagle's 20 on two lines of
code you can if you want use unpacking and write it this way.
A comma B equals 10 comma 20.
That's a fairly actually common way in Python.
Of you know giving initial values to your variables when you have multiple of them.
Now be careful with clarity of code something like this is easy to read and understand that if it starts
getting a little more complicated you might be better off splitting it over multiple lines.
But it certainly works.
And in fact unpacking works with any iterable type.
And to understand the relative positioning just think of the full loop if you will iterate.
Let's say this top are here for e n 10 come 20 come a hello while your loop is going to return 10 then
20 then hello.
At each iteration same thing you can iterate strings.
So if you say for e and X Y Z while your loop is going to return X and the first iteration then Y and
the second iteration and then z in the last iteration.
So let's take a look at a simple application of unpacking swapping the values of two variables.
So let's say we have two variables equals 10 Beagle's 20 and we want to swap them and essentially end
up with because 20 and a 10.
That's a fairly common task that's needed when we're programming.
So the traditional approach might be something like this in other languages like Job.
For example this is how you would swap two values.
So we start with a and b defined right.
Eight points to the 10 and B points to this object.
That is the end of July 20 the first thing we do is we create a temporary variable that's going to point
to the same object that is pointing to.
We need to keep track of that because the next thing we do is we change a we make April to be.
Now what does that mean.
That means that we changed the reference of a point from where it used to point 10 to now point to wherever
B is pointing which is 20.
Now obviously we can set be equal to 8 because we'll just be setting B to itself at this point.
But that's why we remembered temporise That's why we had time which remembers what 10 was or where 10
was in memory.
So now we can just said be equal to temp.
And that changes the reference of B to this original object that was pointing to.
And we're done.
That's the swap.
OK.
But it did require the creation of a new variable.
Now if we use unpacking to swap the two variables then we just do a comma B equals B comment a.
That's pretty cool.
Is Bob.
So there's no time variable involved.
Right.
All we did was just unpacked become a into a copy.
Now this works because in Python the entire right hand side is evaluated first and completely and then
the assignments are made to the left hand side.
In other words what happens here is that Python evaluates the right hand side and so it actually creates
a couple It creates a table in memory the first element of that topple is a memory address which is
what we're B was pointing to and the second element is a which is the memory address of what is pointing
to and then it does the assignments.
But at that point we're no longer looking at the values of A and B when we're assigning to a and b we're
looking at copies of the memory addresses cause it to topple right.
That was created based on what we specified here.
Anyways that's kind of a little gritty details.
But this is how we can use unpacking to swap two variables for example.
So that's pretty handy.
Back to unpacking sets and dictionaries.
So let's say we have a dictionary contains these three key value pairs.
Now we'll loop and Deif we loop if we say for B and D then what will actually be getting is our loop
iterations are going to return the keys.
So the first iteration will return key one second will return key to in the last will return key 3.
So we're not looping through the key value pairs.
When we iterate a dictionary it actually just iterates through the Keys.
So when we're unpacking D we're actually unpacking the keys of d not the key value pairs.
We can and will look at that later.
So if we say a comma become a C equals D then what we actually end up with is A's key one B's key to
and C is Q3.
Or a is key to when B is key one and C is key 3 K or Akos key three Beatles key one sequel's key two
etc..
And now Bob's getting confused.
What's going on why am I saying that it could be you know either of those things.
Well you have to remember dictionaries and sets are unordered types unlike strings and lists and tuples
that are ordered types.
Right.
There is the concept of a first element and a second element and so on.
You can slice those objects.
You cannot do that.
Dictionaries and sets there an unordered type.
You can iterate through them but there's no guarantee of the order in which that iteration will return
results.
It might return the things you know the keys in the order in which you and of them in that role or that
you appended to the dictionary as your code was you know adding things to a dictionary.
It might but it probably won't.
So you can't count on that.
So the problem is that when you unpack this way A is not the first element because there is no first
element because there is no ordering.
So you have to be really careful with that and because of that it's rare that we would unpack in this
manner a dictionary because it's it's kind of a limited use here.
There are uses for unpacking dictionaries that we'll get to in a subsequent video but this is probably
not the best approach here.
All right what about sets.
Will sets work the same way sets are also essentially like dictionaries except they don't have values
they only have keys you can think of a set as a dictionary that has keys only and no Vandas.
So the same thing happens right.
There is no concept of ordering in sets either.
So even though I've created my set this way if I was to loop through the set it might print it out this
way.
Right.
There is no guarantee to the older in which those elements are going to come back when we iterate through
the set.
And so if we were to do this kind of assignment ABC equals S then we might end up with a equals P Beagle's
t Segal's 8 basically the same thing that the you know iteration might be returning an all the way up
to F equals Y.
So again you cannot count on the order because there is no ordering.
So something like that could be pretty limited if you're trying to say hey I want to get the first element.
Well there is no first element.
So that's not going to you know get the first element of course there will be a first element because
it's got to start somewhere.
Right.
But who knows.
It really depends on how the set of the dictionary is being stored in you know in memory and how the
C code that's doing all this is actually working.
But as a Python developer we don't know how it's doing it.
It's opaque.
And so there's no guarantee on how it's going to come back.
All right.
So let's switch to some code and let's see all this in action.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in a bit.